there are two aspects to this ongoing
crisis and yet people can only see one
I'm going to talk about both in today's
video it's important that we look at
what's happening with inflation people
experience that when they go to the gas
pump when they are going to buy their
food at the supermarket but there's
something else and that is with the
corporations when they experience
inflation they run into a very serious
debt problem and that's going on today
this could in fact unravel the entire
Financial system not like we saw in 2008
something very different we'll look at
that today but I wanted to start with
one of my favorite charts of all time
and that is this it's comparing the S P
500 which of course we're looking at the
stock market in general compared with
the central bank balance sheets Michael
guyette who I interviewed a while back
said what do you notice here here and
when we compare the stock market
represented here by the S P 500 with the
central bank balance sheets in this case
he's just showing the total assets of
the FED ECB and the bank of Japan or we
can look at it a little bit further and
include other central banks too
it shows us that we have a Divergence a
Divergence between
how much money has been pumped into the
system and where the markets are at
today this Divergence is part of what I
call the money mirror method and I've
been talking about this a while we are
at a crossroads right now I'm not the
only one talking about it I just named
it and that shows us that there is
reason for concern when the markets get
ahead of themselves they run into an
inevitable fate where it reverts to the
mean but the other option the other
potential
is what would occur if it started to
come down somewhat and then we enter
into the printing presses 2.0 you see
there's a crisis going on
and it's being felt by people certainly
but at the same time the corporations
these Financial establishments have
their own crisis unlike what we even saw
during 2008 and I want to explain that
to you in today's video it starts with
this U.S corporate debt defaults surge
176 percent as the feds war on inflation
pushes more companies into financial
distress
what happens when you have a company
that can't pay their bills well then it
starts to go back to the lender and then
what about the insurance companies and
what about the you know other companies
directly involved with those companies
for some reason or another they're A
supplier to them or what have you One By
One The Dominoes fall
all right
if you think today what you experience
at the gas pump is an issue understand
that diesel has an even bigger issue
so we've got to look at this on multiple
levels yes there's a problem with
individuals and what they have to pay
but what about when we start to unpeel
all of these layers of the onion oh it
gets real messy all right
you gotta chop those onions you gotta
shed some tears unfortunately
a debt cycle is painful and losses are
inevitable what is the result though
what will the central banks do
well I'm not afraid to tell you the
truth
you're a truth Seeker you're here today
and that means you want to not only know
what's going on but you want to thrive
and you want to prosper and so we'll
talk about that having that knowledge
and being able to stand up and realize
that yes this stuff is getting difficult
but I want to know what's going on let's
go
you could see more of that in this
article but just briefly that defaults
by U.S companies surge 176 percent as
many as 69 firms missed payments during
the January uh to August stretch up from
25 in the same period of 2022 it's all
kinds of different companies sure we got
the percentages and so on but understand
that this is a phenomenon that is being
experienced right across the board
corporate interest payments are about to
rise non-financial interest expense paid
and that implied by factoring in Moody's
seasoned baa corporate bond yield to the
stock of debt yes I know that's
complicated all you need to understand
is that we are going to hit a wave of
potential defaults and it's all related
to interest rates what we experience
right now is simply a small part
of the entire puzzle we're never going
to know it all but what we can do is see
the pieces of this and start to put them
together and we already have enough to
realize that this is a crisis unfolding
before our very eyes
the corporations the banks these
entities were reliant on these super low
interest rates and then they went head
first into it they were buying things to
get more yield even what I've just read
recently a Wall Street Journal article
talked about this trillion dollar
industry of brokered deposits brokered
deposits you've got all this money
coming in from these companies trying to
do anything that they can paying more to
get the deposits into their companies so
that they can loan out more so that they
can use that and put that at the Federal
Reserve it's all Arbitrage oh I get your
deposits you're gonna get nothing for
that and then I want to take that money
and I want to invest it somewhere maybe
it's going to be held overnight at the
Federal Reserve so I can make a little
bit of cash May maybe I'll loan it to a
business maybe I'll loan that to an
individual but that's what these
Financial establishments are doing
however a few years ago interest rates
were so low they had to take more and
more risk they had to buy
mortgage-backed Securities they were
doing everything and that is where we
have our risk today because now the
Returns on a lot of the products have
risen dramatically and they're stuck
holding on to all this stuff that
doesn't have any value anymore or much
less and so they are in a bad position
and that is starting to make its way
through at the same time you've got
companies feeling the burden for one
reason or another so I hope this is very
clear TD and CIBC Canadian banks
have negative amortization on a fifth of
their mortgages rates need to come down
on principle will keep rising in a down
Market big problem okay we're talking
about billions and billions of dollars
at stake here negative negative
amortization just imagine that people
are underwater at this time and what's
the solution don't worry we'll kick the
can down the road we're going to print
more money that's never of course the
real solution but they're going to do
that and cause more what inflation yes I
know when you go to the grocery store
there's more inflation when you go to
the pump there's more inflation when you
get any service anything it's more
expensive
so let's look at a few things you could
see retirement homes in Europe this is
just one but I you know you can take
away Luxembourg in Switzerland these are
you know outliers potentially but look
Netherlands 200 euro a night is the
average the average daily price of a
retirement home
okay 200 euro a night do you know a lot
of people that could afford that no but
what am I trying to highlight there in
the United States health care costs I
mean just any anything just name
anything and the prices have gone to
levels people can't afford
and it's getting worse so just imagine
if we encounter a crisis
they are going to meet that crisis with
heavy inflation so watch out the world
is struggling to make enough diesel so
you see you have a problem with gasoline
oh yeah it's expensive
and yet diesel which is used for the
transport
that is now encountering a problem
supply and demand crude production Cuts
have been detrimental to diesel Supply
refineries have sought to satisfy demand
surge for other fuels and so just keep
an eye on this of course because it's
going to affect the cost of Transport
that means you've got to pay more for
everything
okay watch out
gasoline prices soar to U.S seasonal
record I know people are feeling this
trust me we have this McDonald's
franchise group says new California fast
food bill will cause devastating
Financial blow what they want is to put
a wage floor of 20 dollars for people
working at McDonald's now I understand
that would be good for those people
working at McDonald's but I'm gonna have
to be honest with you flippy the robot
is going to get a lot more time in these
businesses
there's no question about it you
implement twenty dollars on that
you're going to have to pay them 20
bucks 25 look they're gonna have to get
raises as time goes on potentially
twenty dollars twenty five dollars for a
fast food worker these companies can't
afford that or they won't afford it
doesn't matter like however you want to
look at that they're just not going to
do it more robots are coming
so watch out prepare accordingly
American manufacturing is coming back
and so are the strikes the reason I
mentioned this is just quite frankly
that what we're seeing with employment
right now is precarious circumstance for
a lot of people
um we're going to see the more strikes
happen and they are they are all around
more strikes happen wages go up and what
did the companies do do they take away
from their profits of course not they
raise their prices and so as we see
these price rise Inc you know constantly
coming through uh we're going to see
inflation going up what is the solution
to that
what will Central Bankers do I think it
is pretty clear that they will need to
implement something to make everybody
happy oh by the way we've got this thing
it's called the Central Bank digital
currency and we can make sure we're
taking care of you and that might have
some strings attached oh yes that's
right those strings who knows who knows
there might be by the way a connect in
connection with this the universal basic
income Ubi
and they might have a social credit
score they can certainly be able to turn
on or off your currency at any given
moment they've said this before multiple
times we want the ability to
um basically say who can and cannot use
this currency
so that's their idea so we have the
crisis and all we need is now a solution
and so I worry about this and I wonder
how people are going to get along with
all of it because for the average person
they're not prepared they're not ready
for this all right so be mindful of it
let me let me talk to you for a second
about what you can do don't just sit
there don't just take it you got to be
aware okay the first thing is to get out
of debt how do you get out of debt I
think there are obviously uh a few
things that you could think about I've
outlined that completely on my Discord
which I'm showing you here as well as on
Compass how do you get on Compass at the
time of this recording it's only for the
people on Discord and of course the
mentorship group uh go down to the link
in the description get on the discourse
totally free and you can get that how to
get out of debt there's videos in there
for you
um lots of stuff to cover
I think it's pretty obvious but but the
bad debt get out of the credit card debt
get all of uh all those buy now pay
later things it's not worth it okay
shortages and price increases are more
common we need to be prepared it's going
to get worse look at what's going on
with rice their ex the export ban I
believe is going to be expanded in from
India and so that's just one thing
that's just one aspect becoming more
common I'm seeing it all the time all
right and don't trust the financial
establishment to make you money they're
in the business of making money okay so
who are they looking after they're
looking after themselves so that's why
you need to look after yourselves and
realize yeah you can put your money with
that establishment that's fine but just
know who they're serving okay keep that
in mind these are just a few things I
try to highlight this at the end of
every episode if you appreciate it hit
that Thumbs Up Button okay that really
does support the channel so if you click
that you're supporting me okay I want to
know what your thoughts are about this
that there's a crisis right now as we
speak not just with individuals we talk
about that all the time but of course
when we look at the death circumstances
in relation to the corporations what did
you think of that and what I talked
about I want to know what you think this
is Discord if you want you can get in
over here joining 1300 plus people
anybody that messages me they will get a
reply on Discord Link in the description
comment of the day Valerie thank you
very much for this great video today
David I think about some of the same
issues that you brought up especially
all of those empty downtown skyscrapers
most of them are emptying out no Revenue
coming in it looks like it's going to be
a big bust and that's part of the
circumstance I've talked about today
these companies if they start going Bank
bankrupt if they can't pay their bills
they empty out of these commercial
buildings and then one thing after
another after another if the banks are
losing they start laying people off if
the companies around the banks don't
have the customers like they did before
they start laying people off it is a
Chain Reaction watch it very carefully
there's so much that I can and would
have loved to cover but here we are I
hope they'll tune into moral so we can
get into even more information all right
I'll see on the next one take care